Revision 0263 Extend SystemRequest With Optional Data For Proprietary Data Exchange (#902)
smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution: proposals/0263-System-Request.md

> With the growing popularity of SDL, more components within the head unit would like to exchange their data in a component specific proprietary way with the owner applications. Most of the time, the size of the information is less than a kilobyte. Currently mobile apps can send/receive binary data in SystemRequest and OnSystemRequest RPC messages using hybrid message, a file needs to be passed between SDL Core and HMI to exchange the data. File operations (create, read, write, delete) are slow. It is better to send data (especially a small amount of data) using message directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the growing popularity of SDL, more components within the head unit would like to exchange their data in a component specific proprietary way with the owner applications. Most of the time, the size of the information is less than a kilobyte. Currently mobile apps can send/receive binary data in `SystemRequest` and `OnSystemRequest` RPC messages using hybrid message, and a file needs to be passed between SDL Core and HMI to exchange the data. File operations (create, read, write, delete) are slow. It is better to send data (especially a small amount of data) using message directly.
```

> Further more, currently a mobile app can send a SystemRequest to the head unit, only getting a result code back. The resulting vehicle data is not available in the response. We propose to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, currently a mobile app can send a `SystemRequest` to the head unit, only getting a result code back. The resulting vehicle data is not available in the response. We propose to provide a mobile app with a way to request OEM specific data from the head unit depending on the `requestType` and `subRequestType` in the `OnSystemRequest` response.

> provide a mobile app a way requesting OEM specific data from the head unit depending on the requestType and subRequestType in the OnSystemRequest response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This can be removed since it was added to the line above.

## Proposed solution

This proposal adds a new optional parameter to the existing `SystemRequest` request and `OnSystemRequest` notification in HMI API.

> This proposal also adds a new optional parameter to `SystemRequest` response in HMI API. And the data shall be trasnmitted via hybrid message to mobile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This proposal also adds a new optional parameter to the `SystemRequest` response in the HMI API. The data shall be transmitted via hybrid message to mobile.
```

> Mobile API changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Mobile API changes
```

> There is no parameter added to mobile API. However, the text description of `SystemRequest` response shall say that binary data can be included in hybrid part of message in the response of a system request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no parameter added to mobile API. However, the text description of `SystemRequest` response shall say that binary data can be included in the hybrid part of the message in the response of a system request.
```

> HMI API changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### HMI API changes
```

MaximumBinaryPayloadSizeToString = 11520
```

> - When SDL Core receives a SystemRequest request from mobile, if the incoming binary data is less than a certain size specified by smartdevicelink.ini, instead of saving the data to a temporary file, SDL Core shall encode the data using base64 format, and send the encoded string as `requestData` directly within a SystemRequest HMI message. If the size of data is large, SDL Core saves the data to a file and passes the file name to HMI as before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When SDL Core receives a `SystemRequest` request from mobile, if the incoming binary data is less than a certain size specified by smartdevicelink.ini, instead of saving the data to a temporary file, SDL Core shall encode the data using base64 format, and send the encoded string as `requestData` directly within a SystemRequest HMI message. If the size of the data is large, SDL Core saves the data to a file and passes the file name to HMI as before.
```

> - When SDL Core revives an OnSystemRequest notification from HMI, if the optional `data` parameter exists, SDL Core shall ignore the `fileName` parameter. Instead of reading data from the file, SDL Core shall base64 decode the string, and send the resulting data in hybrid part of the message to mobile. If the optional `data` parameter does not exist, SDL Core reads data from file as before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When SDL Core receives an `OnSystemRequest` notification from the HMI, if the optional `data` parameter exists, SDL Core shall ignore the `fileName` parameter. Instead of reading data from the file, SDL Core shall base64 decode the string, and send the resulting data in the hybrid part of the message to mobile. If the optional `data` parameter does not exist, SDL Core reads data from the file as before.
```

> - When SDL Core revives a SystemRequest response from HMI, if the optional `resultData` parameter exists, SDL Core shall base64 decode the string, and send the resulting data in hybrid part of the message to mobile. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When SDL Core receives a `SystemRequest` response from the HMI, if the optional `resultData` parameter exists, SDL Core shall base64 decode the string, and send the resulting data in the hybrid part of the message to mobile. 
```

> Potential changes to HMI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Potential changes to HMI
```

> - When HMI receives a SystemRequest request, if optional parameter `requestData` exists, it shall ignore the `fileName` parameter. It shall base64 decode the string and use the data as if it comes from a file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When HMI receives a `SystemRequest` request, if optional parameter `requestData` exists, it shall ignore the `fileName` parameter. It shall base64 decode the string and use the data as if it comes from a file.
```

> - When HMI sends a OnSystemRequest notification, it is free to choose either the file transfer (as before) or string transfer (new) regardless of the configurable parameter in smartdevicelink.ini.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When HMI sends an `OnSystemRequest` notification, it is free to choose either the file transfer (as before) or string transfer (new) regardless of the configurable parameter in smartdevicelink.ini.
```

> - When HMI sends a SystemRequest response with `resultData`, it shall choose string transfer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When HMI sends a `SystemRequest` response with `resultData`, it shall choose string transfer.
```

> Since `fileName` is mandatory in the HMI API for SystemRequest request and OnSystemRequest and it will be ignored when `requestData`/`data` exists, `fileName` can be hard coded to any string. This is true for both SDL core and HMI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since `fileName` is mandatory in the HMI API for `SystemRequest` request and `OnSystemRequest` and it will be ignored when `requestData`/`data` exists, `fileName` can be hard coded to any string. This is true for both SDL Core and HMI.
```

> Potential code changes to Java Proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Potential code changes to Java Proxy
```

> Since java suite already has the code to extract hybrid part of the protocl message and set the bulk data when create a RPC message (response), the only change is to expose a method for developer to get the result data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Java Suite already has the code to extract the hybrid part of the protocol message and set the bulk data when creating a RPC message (response), the only change is to expose a method for the developer to get the result data.
```

```java
public class SystemRequestResponse extends RPCResponse {
    public SystemRequestResponse() {
        super(FunctionID.SYSTEM_REQUEST.toString());
    }

    public SystemRequestResponse(Hashtable<String, Object> hash) {
        super(hash);
    }

    public SystemRequestResponse(Hashtable<String, Object> hash, byte[] bulkData){
        super(hash);
        setBulkData(bulkData);
    }
	
	/**
	 * Constructs a new SystemRequestResponse object
	 * @param success whether the request is successfully processed
	 * @param resultCode whether the request is successfully processed
	 */
	public SystemRequestResponse(@NonNull Boolean success, @NonNull Result resultCode) {
		this();
		setSuccess(success);
		setResultCode(resultCode);
	}
	
	public void setResultData(byte[] resultData) {
        setBulkData(aptData);
    }
	
	public byte[] getResultData() {
        return getBulkData();
    }
}
```

> Potential code changes to iOS Proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Potential code changes to iOS Proxy
```

> Similar to java suite, the required function would be parsing the SystemRequestResponse message and extract bulk data in protocol level message and expose an get method for it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to Java Suite, the required function would be parsing the `SystemRequestResponse` message, extracting bulk data in protocol level message, and exposing a get method for it. 
```

> After looking at the code, `bulkData` is already a public property of `SDLRPCMessage`. `SDLSystemRequestResponse`, `SDLOnSystemRequest`, and `SDLSystemRequest` all inherit from `SDLRPCMessage`. `bulkData` is already exposed (can be set/get and is nullable) and `SDLRPCMessage` handles the parsing from core too, therefore, there is no code change need. Developers can use something like the following to access `bulkData`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After looking at the code, `bulkData` is already a public property of `SDLRPCMessage`. `SDLSystemRequestResponse`, `SDLOnSystemRequest`, and `SDLSystemRequest` all inherit from `SDLRPCMessage`. `bulkData` is already exposed (can be set/get and is nullable) and `SDLRPCMessage` handles the parsing from SDL Core too, therefore, there is no code change need. Developers can use something like the following to access `bulkData`:
```
